poms/tools-parent/src/site/markdown/index.md, before:

# Nazgul Tools: Parent - overview

There are 3 POM projects to mind when you are using the Nazgul Framework: Tools reactor to enrich
and simplify your project development. Each of these projects contain a single POM intended to
be used as parent for other POMs. However, the tasks and uses of these 3 POM projects differ:

1. **nazgul-tools-parent**: The root of the parent pom chain, the Nazgul Tools Parent POM defines
   a lot of build mechanics, implying maven plugins and their configuration. Most of the configuration
   files for plugins using configuration files is actually located in the Nazgul Tools: Codestyle
   project and included by dependency, but some plugin configuration is given directly in the
   Nazgul Tools: Parent POM. The Nazgul Tools: Parent POM is **not** intended to be included as
   parent directly in your development projects; use either of the POMs below instead.

2. **nazgul-tools-external-parent**: This is a POM intended as parent for projects
   which produce an artifact. Such projects typically have a POM whose packaging is JAR, WAR, EAR
   or bundle - but typically **not** with packaging POM and not defining any modules.
   The nazgul-tools-external-parent POM extend the `nazgul-tools-parent` POM by including some basic
   <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aspect-oriented_programming">aspects</a> which can be
   used to ensure that objects are created with correct state (i.e. validate the internal state
   of objects). Typically, state validation is done after calling a constructor or after converting
   an object from another form (like XML or JSON during transport).

3.  **nazgul-tools-external-reactor**: This is a POM intended as parent for projects that do
    **not** produce artifacts, but instead define the build reactor. Such projects normally have
    "pom" packaging and define modules.

## What is the difference between a Parent and a Reactor POM?

The POM defines lots of configuration and build settings for Maven projects.
The Nazgul Framework divides the POMs in 2 categories:

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Type</th>
        <th>Leaf?</th>
        <th>Children?</th>
        <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Parent</td>
        <td>Yes</td>
        <td>No</td>
        <td>Used as parents for projects producing artifacts and <b>not</b> having any modules (project children)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Reactor</td>
        <td>No</td>
        <td>Yes</td>
        <td>Used as parents for projects <b>not</b> producing artifacts and having modules (project children)</td>
    </tr>
</table>

**Parent** poms define dependencies and plugins required to produce an artifact.
Parent poms are intended to be used as parents for projects producing artifacts and **not** having
any modules (project children). The Nazgul Framework structures projects in leaf projects
which create artifacts, and non-leaf projects which create the build reactor by defining modules.

**Reactor** poms define the build reactor, implying that they are parents for POMs which have
POM packaging and defines modules.

The structure of the Nazgul Framework: Tools reactor is shown in the illustration below.
The POMs marked "external" are intended for use as parent poms in your project, for parent
and reactor POMs respectively.

<img src="images/plantuml/nazgul_tools.png" style="margin:10px;" />

Commit message:

Removed clirr-maven-plugin, as it is not compatible with Java8

poms/tools-parent/src/site/markdown/index.md, after:

# Nazgul Tools: Parent - overview

There are 3 POM projects to mind when you are using the Nazgul Framework: Tools reactor to enrich
and simplify your project development. Each of these projects contain a single POM intended to
be used as parent for other POMs. However, the tasks and uses of these 3 POM projects differ:

1. **nazgul-tools-parent**: The root of the parent pom chain, the Nazgul Tools Parent POM defines
   a lot of build mechanics, implying maven plugins and their configuration. Most of the configuration
   files for plugins using configuration files is actually located in the Nazgul Tools: Codestyle
   project and included by dependency, but some plugin configuration is given directly in the
   Nazgul Tools: Parent POM. The Nazgul Tools: Parent POM is **not** intended to be included as
   parent directly in your development projects; use either of the POMs below instead.
   Since release 6.0.1, the Nazgul Framework: Tools has targeted Java8 projects and bytecode implying that
   some code quality plugins which do not support Java8 have been removed (in particular the cobertura-maven-plugin,
   and the clirr-maven-plugin which do not support Java8 bytecode).

2. **nazgul-tools-external-parent**: This is a POM intended as parent for projects
   which produce an artifact. Such projects typically have a POM whose packaging is JAR, WAR, EAR
   or bundle - but typically **not** with packaging POM and not defining any modules.
   The nazgul-tools-external-parent POM extend the `nazgul-tools-parent` POM by including some basic
   <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aspect-oriented_programming">aspects</a> which can be
   used to ensure that objects are created with correct state (i.e. validate the internal state
   of objects). Typically, state validation is done after calling a constructor or after converting
   an object from another form (like XML or JSON during transport).

3.  **nazgul-tools-external-reactor**: This is a POM intended as parent for projects that do
    **not** produce artifacts, but instead define the build reactor. Such projects normally have
    "pom" packaging and define modules.

## What is the difference between a Parent and a Reactor POM?

The POM defines lots of configuration and build settings for Maven projects.
The Nazgul Framework divides the POMs in 2 categories:

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Type</th>
        <th>Leaf?</th>
        <th>Children?</th>
        <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Parent</td>
        <td>Yes</td>
        <td>No</td>
        <td>Used as parents for projects producing artifacts and <b>not</b> having any modules (project children)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Reactor</td>
        <td>No</td>
        <td>Yes</td>
        <td>Used as parents for projects <b>not</b> producing artifacts and having modules (project children)</td>
    </tr>
</table>

**Parent** poms define dependencies and plugins required to produce an artifact.
Parent poms are intended to be used as parents for projects producing artifacts and **not** having
any modules (project children). The Nazgul Framework structures projects in leaf projects
which create artifacts, and non-leaf projects which create the build reactor by defining modules.

**Reactor** poms define the build reactor, implying that they are parents for POMs which have
POM packaging and defines modules.

The structure of the Nazgul Framework: Tools reactor is shown in the illustration below.
The POMs marked "external" are intended for use as parent poms in your project, for parent
and reactor POMs respectively.

<img src="images/plantuml/nazgul_tools.png" style="margin:10px;" />
